We are gonna move on to another score or
another metric.
We're gonna look at first input delay,
which is a little bit more abstract.
First input delay isn't a problem that we
would really have on the current request
metrics site.
The first input delay is the browser time
delay between the user's first click and
the execution of application code.
So by pushing all of
that stuff to do later,
when the user thinks the page is ready,
have we put too many things
on the browser's plate that it
can't respond fast enough and
pass events to your code fast enough that
the user feels like the page is fast?
Essentially, don't put too
much stuff on the page.
This also has an interaction with LCP.
Let's say you have an obnoxious
amount of JavaScript on your page,
as far too many sites do.
Well, if you have that obnoxious
amount of JavaScript before LCP,
well, the user will kind of forgive you,
right?
You're loading, maybe you even have
a loading screen that says, hey,
here's a bunch of stuff that we have
to download in order to do something.
Well, depending on the value that your
page is delivering, that might be okay.
The user might understand and expect it.
But if they don't understand and expect
a delay, while you load JavaScript and
you've pushed it to after the largest
contentful paint as then you've shown
the user, hey, I'm ready.
But in the background,
the browser is still downloading and
parsing and pulling together
huge JavaScript applications.
We've given the browser too much to do.
And when the user starts to interact, the
browser's gonna feel leggy it's gonna kind
of jitter around and
it's gonna be a bad experience.
It's gonna make the user feel
like if your app is slow, and
that's going to make them angry.
Dealing with first input delay, is largely
dependent on the psychology of waiting.
So you've given the user an indication
that the page is ready when largest
contentful paint happens.
But if your page isn't ready,
because you really have a whole lot more
JavaScript that is critical to
the function of your page, and
is going to consume a lot of the browser's
resources, then your page isn't ready.
And your people or
the amount of stuff you need to do is
going to require the your user to wait.
And so particularly I wanna call
out point number six here is that,
people are gonna wait for value.
If you're building an app, and
it is highly dynamic, highly interactive.
It's got video, it's like the front end
master's course interaction kind of thing.
The user will expect
a certain amount of waiting.
They're gonna expect that you're
gonna deliver a lot of JavaScript.
And they're gonna expect that like, it's
gonna take a while to figure out what this
application is gonna do, and
they will forgive some of that.
But if you landed on npr.org, or CNN or
New York Times or any of those new sites,
and it prompted you with this obnoxious
loading screen before you got
to your article, you'd be like screw this,
I don't need to wait for this.
This is not something valuable
enough that you need to delay my
experience to pull down
all this JavaScript for.
And so first input delay is
a concerning metric for you.
Chances are it means you're pushing
down too much JavaScript for
the value your users see on your site.
So, will a user wait for it?
You need to consider what
the context is of your application.
How anxious is your user when
they are loading the page?
Did they just click on a news article and
they're just avoiding what they should be
doing and wasting time on the Internet?
They're anxious level is low.
Are they waiting for a medical results?
Are they waiting for their loan approval?
Are they waiting for whether or
not they have this job?
Their anxiety level is
probably pretty high.
And they're going to be
less forgiving of a wait.
How valuable is this thing to them?
If you're building a site that
is delivering a lot of value,
something that the user wouldn't expect
to just get from any old website, well,
they'll be willing to
wait a little bit longer.
You can now put a loading screen up and
the user will forgive you.
They will expect it.
But they wouldn't expect it if what you
have delivering is a lower value thing,
like a new site,
a content site or whatever.
And then do they understand the wait?
You have made the user wait,
while you load of the client side app.
Do they understand that?
Do they understand why they're waiting?
And do they value it
enough to do the wait?
These are things that you need
to consider for your app.
Okay, sorry, that's a little abstract.
But first input delay is kind of abstract.